Welcome back everyone to this lecture on the between keyword operator the between operator can be used
to match value against a range of values.
So for example we can ask where is the value between a low and a high.
And this is essentially going to be a condition you can tag along with a where statement you should
note that using the between operator is essentially the same as asking individually where a value is
greater than or equal to low and a value is less than or equal to high.
So note that the low and the high here are both inclusive.
So it's actually including the end points there.
You can also combine the between keyword with the not logical operator essentially asking where is the
value not between low and high and this is the same as asking value less than low or value greater than
high.
Note here that we are exclusive of the actual low point in High Point.
So what I mean by that is for the not between statement if you're saying something like value not between
eight and nine.
If a value happens to be eight it's not going to be included in the not between verses.
If we take a look back at the between statement that is inclusive meaning if you wanted a value between
eight and nine it would actually include eights and nines there.
So keep that in mind.
And if you want to change exclusive city versus inclusive city you can just go back and use the.
And operator and then specify listener equal to manually yourself with the comparison operators.
Now the between operator can also be used with dates.
You should note that you need to format dates.
In this case and the ISO 8 6 0 1 standard format which is essentially just four numbers for the year
a dash then two numbers for the month a dash and then two numbers for the date or the actual day.
So that means it would look something like where is the dates between and then as a string of single
quotes in that particular format year year year dash month month dash day day and then the other date
some to keep in mind is when using the between operator with dates that also include timestamp information.
So not just the actual day but also the hour minutes and seconds you should pay careful attention to
using the between operator especially since we have the issue of inclusive city versus exclusivity of
the not between.
So you should take into account the fact that a date time that is both the dates and the actual time
information would start at zero hundred hours.
So that may have an effect depending on what the actual situation is and whether you want inclusive
city or exclusivity around that midnight time or zero hundred hour time.
Later on we're gonna study more specific methods to actually work with date time information types.
So don't worry about it too much right now it's just something to keep in mind for the future let's
go ahead and get some quick practice of the between operator and PGA admin OK.
Here we are at P.G. Edmond.
When I'm first going to do is check out the payment table since that's what we're going to be working
with for our examples.
We'll say select from payment table will grab everything but just limited to just a few rows so we can
see the general syntax here and general columns are the payment I.D..
Customer I.D. staff I.D. rental I.D. and then the amount and the payment date.
So we're gonna be working off these two columns here.
Let's go ahead and see if we can use between on the amount column.
Let's imagine you wanted to know the actual number of payments that were done between eight and nine
dollars.
So what we can do is say select from payments where amount between eight and nine if I just run this
they'll give me all the results we can see everything here is eight ninety nine.
And if I actually wanted to know the total number of transactions I can just count the number of rows
return and it's four hundred and thirty nine rows.
If I wanted to know the opposite essentially everything that wasn't between eight and nine dollars I
can simply add not between eight nine.
I can run this and then I get the number of payments that were not between eight and nine dollars.
Let's take a look again now at the payment date column so we can do is let's imagine.
I wanted all the payments that happens on the first half of February of 2007.
What I could do is let's just select everything so we can get an idea of what's happening here and we'll
say where the payment date column is between and what we're gonna do here is make sure we format this
correctly which is going to be the year dash the month dash let's say 0 1 and we'll say two thousand
seven dash 0 2 and then the 15th.
So we run this year and we can see all these payments happened between the 1st of February 2007 and
the 15th of February 2007.
Now something to keep in mind especially when you're dealing with a timestamp information is that this
time information includes both the dates and our minutes et cetera.
So that means postcard sequel essentially has to decide does a day start at zero hundred hours or at
twenty four hundred hours.
And if you're dealing with exclusivity versus inclusive city that actually might affect your logic.
So what I mean by that is take a look at the results here.
They all actually happened on the 14th.
So if you kind of scroll down you'll see there's twenty seven rows and essentially all the payments
that happen between the 1st and the 15th all happened on the 14th.
Now let's actually switch this to be all the payment dates from the first to the 14th and this is where
students often get confused they would actually expect to see these results.
But if I run this you'll notice nothing gets returned and that's because when we're dealing with this
end date it's actually only going up to the zero hundred hour mark.
It's not going to the end which would be the twenty four hundred hour mark of the 14th which is why
for these sort of between statements when you're dealing with timestamp information you just have to
be careful that you always want to double check and make sure getting the results you expected.
So in this case I have to go all the way to the 15th to actually include information that happened on
the day of the 14th.
OK.
And later on we're going to learn a lot more about how to deal of timestamp information such as this.
So that's it for the between examples.
Coming up next we're going learn about a more school keywords that are very helpful in different types
of queries.
I'll see you there.